NMS-13075: WmiDetector documentation (#3347)
OpenNMS/opennms: docs/modules/operation/pages/provisioning/detectors/WmiDetector.adoc

= WMI Service Detector

> The WMI Detector can be used to detect the availability of WmiConfiguration on a device when scanning it using Provisiond. By default, it expects to make a WMI query to the `Win32_ComputerSystem` class, checking for `OK` from the "Status" object.

Reviewer: one line one sentence

Author: fixed

> The WMI Detector can be used to detect the availability of WmiConfiguration on a device when scanning it using Provisiond. By default, it expects to make a WMI query to the `Win32_ComputerSystem` class, checking for `OK` from the "Status" object.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Use the WMI Detector to detect the availability of WmiConfiguration on a device when scanning it using Provisiond. By default, it expects to make a WMI query to the `Win32_ComputerSystem` class, checking for `OK` from the "Status" object.
```

== Detector facts

[options="autowidth"]
|===
| Implementation | `org.opennms.netmgt.provision.detector.wmi.WmiDetector`
|===

== Configuration and Use

.Parameters for the Win32 Service Detector
[options="header, autowidth"]
|===
| Parameter       | Description                                                                              | Required | Default value
| `username`   | The username to use when authenticating against the WMI host.  | Required | `Administrator`
| `password`   | The password to use when authenticating against the WMI host.  | Required |
| `domain`   | The Windows domain to use when authenticating against the WMI host.  | Required | `WORKGROUP`

> | `wmiClass`   | This is the class of instances within WMI. An example of this would be the `Win32_ComputerSystem` class. This class contains objects representing properties and methods available.  | Required | `Win32_ComputerSystem`

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
| `wmiClass`   | The class of instances within WMI. An example would be the `Win32_ComputerSystem` class. This class contains objects representing properties and methods available.  | Required | `Win32_ComputerSystem`
```

> | `wmiObject`   | A WMI Object is technically a member of a WMI property set. Using the previous example of `Win32_ComputerSystem` this class contains a variety of properties that we can look at and poll. The default WMI service uses the `Status` property to determine if the system is running and if WMI is available. | Required | `Status`

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
| `wmiObject`   | A WMI object is technically a member of a WMI property set. Using the previous example of `Win32_ComputerSystem` this class contains a variety of properties that we can look at and poll. The default WMI service uses the `Status` property to determine if the system is running and if WMI is available. | Required | `Status`
```

> | `wmiWqlStr`   | Microsoft WMI also implements an `ExecQuery` method which is more common in Windows scripting but less common in OpenNMS polling and monitoring. WQL, which stands for "SQL For WMI" according to Microsoft, is a simple SQL-like syntax for querying WMI classes, properties and instances. Here's an example of a WQL query that you could use to discover whether a Windows service is running: `Select State From Win32_Service Where Name='Server'` | Required | `NOTSET`

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
| `wmiWqlStr`   | Microsoft WMI also implements an `ExecQuery` method which is more common in Windows scripting but less common in OpenNMS polling and monitoring. WQL, which stands for "SQL For WMI" according to Microsoft, is a simple SQL-like syntax for querying WMI classes, properties, and instances. Here's an example of a WQL query that you could use to discover whether a Windows service is running: `Select State From Win32_Service Where Name='Server'` | Required | `NOTSET`
```

| `compVal`   | The value to use when performing a comparison against the wmiObject. | Required | `OK`

> | `compOp`   a| The compare operation is how you tell the OpenNMS WMI poller plugins how to verify the nature (up, critical) of a specific property within WMI. In the event of unequal comparisons the system will always have the WMI value (as retrieved from the target) on the left. Available compare operations are:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
| `compOp`   a| The compare operation is how you tell the OpenNMS WMI poller plugins how to verify the nature (up, critical) of a specific property within WMI. In the event of unequal comparisons, the system will always have the WMI value (as retrieved from the target) on the left. Available compare operations are:
```

* `EQ` (equals)
* `NEQ` (not equals)
* `GT` (greater than)
* `LT` (less than)
* `NOOP` (no operation)

> The NOOP operation is a special case in which the Manager will always return a result code of "OK." This is typical used in scenarios where the existence of a class or property is more interesting than the contents of the property. We use this in the collector to check and ensure that WMI is available before attempting to collect data. | Required | `EQ`

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The NOOP operation is a special case in which the Manager will always return a result code of "OK". This is typically used in scenarios where the existence of a class or property is more interesting than the contents of the property. We use this in the collector to check and ensure that WMI is available before attempting to collect data. | Required | `EQ`
```

| `matchType`   a| The match type configuration tells the OpenNMS WMI system how you want to cope with multiple instance results. Available match types are:

* `all` all instances must comply to the compare operation
* `none` no instances should comply with the compare operation
* `some` - only some (1 or more) must comply with the compare operation

> * `one` only one instance can comply with the compare operation. | Required | `all`

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* `one` only one instance can comply with the compare operation | Required | `all`
```
